Hello Guys welcome to one more lesson in this lesson we are going to talk about the three basic building
blocks of a WordPress scene.
You'll see that we need only three blocks to beautifying a header or dynamic content area and a future.
This dynamic area at first to be represented by adding the X Dadds page file.
But as you remember this fire is used as a default theme template.
We also have different template files used for static pages for the human etc..
But let's focus first on the next large beach file.
First let's open up our layout.
You may notice that it contains this region here region that is going to be the same for all pages which
goes from this red bar to the end of the menu.
It also has a dynamic content region that goes from the slide to that map.
And then there was a footer that is going to be displayed on every page of the theme as well is that
region at the beginning will be entirely created on the index that should file.
But when we open a post we'll make arrangements for words press you use a different thing play file.
But first things first and the last lesson we created the that file.
But it was created in a rather elementary way.
It has only one paragraph and a title tag on it.
But if you can remember from another lesson I told you that a home page is very different from a contact
page in about a space services page and so on.
That's why we're going to make this layout more dynamic in order for this to work.
Let's split this layout into three parts to begin with.
Let's create our basic HMO structure.
It should be all based on the layout we are seeing here.
So let's head over to Sublime Text
open up index that Peachtree.
And I'm going to leave this paragraph here just as a reference for us.
OK.
Well let's start off with a board tag.
Fortunately WordPress gives us a very useful function that can be used inside the body tag.
It helps us identify which base we are working on within the theme.
We can use this artifice to better style our theme this function is called Body underscore class and
it basically returns to classes related to the page we are vene.
For example when you visit the home page it brings the home class inside the body tag.
Hence we can style a page that has the home class in a different way.
But of course you understand is better as we move along the course.
OK.
You see this in detail for now.
Let's start by creating the HMO structure of the site's header and inside the header according to our
layout.
We have a red bar at the top.
First we create a header tag
and inside a tag we want to create a section that you have the top hyphen Bar class inside the stop
bar.
We have two other areas.
The first one on the left side reserved for these social media icons
and another one on the right side.
It should be named search.
Do see what I'm doing here.
So explain to translate that red bar on the layout into HVM mail.
I just call that top bar on the HMO structure and inside it I created this structure for these two other
areas on the left side and therefore those social media icons and on the right side a search area as
you can see you're creating for now only the basic markup of the theme.
Will be only this to start with.
Now to continue on.
Let's go ahead and create the menu area still within the header area.
Let's call it Menu hyphen area and within this menu we have another section that's called Logo Because
we be placing our logo there.
Now we want a knapsack and it's classful will be called Main hyphen menu and you're being served in
our first menu there and that's all for this whole area you're creating you repeat on every single page.
OK.
So let's go ahead and create our dynamic area now let's call it content hyphen area
inside this area you have many other areas.
According to the lay out we all have here.
Our main area which will stay inside our main seg inside is Mentec.
You have a section for the slide
and below the slide you have a red bar for these services
and after services.
We have a central area let's call it middle Haven area.
Inside is Nido area.
We have a sidebar and a News area.
Then in the mail the side by side in a side stack and you have the class of sidebar.
And after that you have a new day tag called news and you have one less section for a map a stipend
here section class.
Now both the main area and a dynamic area are complete.
Now we can create a footer which finally closes the website.
So let's use the foot or tag to mark this region.
OK.
We have now indexed that page file finally ready.
But again I must tell you that if we only have indexed that page file created that way our theme will
be pretty simple.
So that's the difference.
Ok my idea is to break this index that piece B file into three blocks.
The first one will contain an area that will be always dynamic.
That is its content will change depending on the page visited for example on a home page.
This area will look identical to the image you're seeing now.
However on a news page it on display this slide is service area the map and other areas too.
On the other hand the other two areas from here up and from the footer down always repeat for every
single page and this will be our three Duling blocks.
But we're going to stop here for now because in the next lesson we're going to continue with the explanation
showing you how we can split this blocks into three different files one for a header one for the dynamic
part and a third for the full hour.
Also in the next lesson you'll be downloading a pure H.M.S. theme and will try to turn it into a WordPress
film using the knowledge we are getting from these lessons.
And it's going to be very cool.
So until then NSU in the next lesson by.